The workshop was hosted by five people from library and infrastructure
environments. As information managers we discussed what libraries are
already doing and should do in the future to further explore software
engineering and engineers. The topic attracted participants with diverse
backgrounds in research software engineering and library and information
science. Our goals were to generate/strengthen awareness of the topic of
Research Software & Engineers \[RS(E)\] in libraries, to jointly
identify fields of action for libraries, to collect and collaboratively
develop ideas and materials for use in libraries, and to interconnect
the RSE community with libraries.

### Introduction

Katrin Leinweber from TIB Hannover opened and moderated the workshop.
After a short round of introductions of all the participants, we started
to present the three subtopics of this workshop in short impulse
lectures, from which the participants then choose one to persue. For the
treatment of the topics we decided to use the Speedboat procedure[^1]
known from agile project management. We worked with a diagram of a
sailing boat and an island. The anchor of the sailboat represents the
challenges of the respective topic. The wind in the sails gives the
company strength and stands for aspects that help us to achieve our
goal. The goal in turn is embodied by the island, which represents the
desired state for the respective topic.

### Software Discovery and its tools

Discussions revealed that developers utilize general purpose search
engines to find code snippets, for example in order to remind themselves
how a certain algorithm was implemented. Software for re-use purpose is
also searched for in general purpose search engines and within the
researcher's social network.

BASE[^2] as a search engine for academic audiences does show software
from over 7000 sources it harvests. User Interface refinements to
support this use case were discussed, such as aggregating multiple
versions of the same software into a single entry, with the latest
version displayed primarily. It was also suggested to implement full
text and source code search (in addition to metadata search) in order to
increase its usefulness. Zenodo.org[^3] becomes more popular as a
software repository due to its integration with GitHub[^4] which allows
publication with a DOI and thus proper citation[^5] metadata. Software
Heritage[^6] was shortly discussed as an archival effort to prevent loss
of research software as it may happen on code collaboration platforms.
We finished the discussion with ideas on how to make software and the
relevant repositories more visible. A registry similar to what
re3data[^7] does for research data could be a promising endeavour.

### Open Educational Resources

In the second track of the workshop, we set out to collect existing Open
Educational Resources on RSE and to show why libraries can be good
partners of the RSE community in terms of education and training. We
agreed in advance that mastery of the tools is particularly important
for research and that software has an outstanding importance as a tool
today. First, we collected existing offers for training (Carpentries[^8]
-- Software[^9], Data[^10], Library[^11], ProgrammingHistorian[^12],
Exercism[^13]), for documentation (Read the Docs[^14], MkDocs[^15]), and
collections of interesting aspects in general (awesome lists[^16]). We
quickly agreed that there are already many offers and that we as
libraries should rather concentrate on collecting, curating, improving
and above all disseminating the existing offers. We identified potential
problems for this in institutional support -- although the topic of
research software is currently coming to the fore, the necessary
structures at the institutions are still lacking. The offers collected
so far are also based on voluntary work, which is often carried out in
leisure time in addition to regular work. Further, the sheer quantity of
available offers is challenging.

Just as good programmers try to solve a problem by writing as little
code as necessary[^17], re-using well-established, shared code
libraries, knowledge workers should take on the challenge of
contributing to existing resources, rather than creating their own.
Although the latter is a common criterion in evaluations, promotions et
cetera, it exacerbates the problem of curating or even just reviewing
the sheer quantity of available material.

### RSE and the Management of Research Data

The third group discussed the close connection of research software and
research data. In many cases publication and archival of research data
without the used research software is useless. This causes several
challenges for example for software of measure devices and simulation.
Libraries have to offer new services in close cooperation with
researchers and research software developers. Libraries have useful
knowledge on aspects like metadata, protocols, vocabularies/ontologies,
persistent identifiers. This knowledge may lead to new services about
reproducibility, discovery, free or restricted access to research data
and software.

Research is changing and becoming more complex. Diversity of
researchers' needs and use cases require flexible cooperation between
librarians, researchers and software developers. Small and concrete
pilot projects should help to develop new ways of cooperation.

### Future Work

The organizers consider pursuing the topic in the future. Making
software repositories more accessible may be one activity. In our
experience, libraries will have the most impact by connecting scientists
and users to existing tools, curation forums (GitHub topics[^18]) and
initiatives like Carpentries[^19] or Open Source Guide[^20]. Stay tuned.

### deRSE Conference Review

After three successful UK conferences for Research Software Engineering
the first RSE conference in Germany[^21] took place at the Albert
Einstein Science Park[^22] in Potsdam. The organizers created a
wonderful atmosphere and a sophisticated and balanced schedule. Many
talks were recorded and have been published in a dedicated video
repository[^23]. There has been praise[^24] and some criticism due to
some sponsors involved. There are more national conferences of this kind
scheduled[^25] but rumor has it that an international conference is in
the making.


[^1]: "Speedboat procedure":
    <https://klaxoon.com/blog/speed-boat-an-agile-method-to-discover>.

[^2]: BASE: <https://www.base-search.net/>.

[^3]: Zenodo -- Type "Software":
    <https://zenodo.org/search?page=1&size=20&q=&type=software>.

[^4]: GitHub "Making Your Code Citable"
    <https://guides.github.com/activities/citable-code/>.

[^5]: Research Software Citation: <https://cite.research-software.org/>.

[^6]: Software Heritage: <https://www.softwareheritage.org/>.

[^7]: re3data: <https://re3data.org/>.

[^8]: The Carpentries: <https://carpentries.org/>.

[^9]: Software Carpentry: <https://software-carpentry.org/>.

[^10]: Data Carpentry: <https://datacarpentry.org/>.

[^11]: Library Carpentry: <https://librarycarpentry.org/>.

[^12]: The Programming Historian: <https://programminghistorian.org/>.

[^13]: Exercism: <https://exercism.io/>.

[^14]: Read the Docs -- Create, host, and browse documentation:
    <https://readthedocs.org/>.

[^15]: MkDocs -- Project documentation with Markdown:
    <https://www.mkdocs.org/>.

[^16]: For example list on GitHub: "awesome -- Awesome lists about all
    kinds of interesting topics"
    <https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome>.

[^17]: David Strauss: "All Code is Debt", February 12, 2014,
    <https://pantheon.io/blog/all-code-debt>.

[^18]: GitHub topics: <https://github.com/topics/>.

[^19]: The Carpentries: <https://carpentries.org/>.

[^20]: Open Source Guides: <https://opensource.guide/>.

[^21]: deRSE19 Conference: <https://www.de-rse.org/en/conf2019/>.

[^22]: Albert Einstein Science Park:
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein_Science_Park>.

[^23]: deRSE19 video recordings: <https://av.tib.eu/series/644>.

[^24]: Helmholtz Open Science Newsletter vom 24.07.2019
    https://os.helmholtz.de/bewusstsein-schaerfen/newsletter/archiv/newsletter-75-vom-24072019/\#c19002

[^25]: For example in the Netherlands, see Call for contributions --
    NL-RSE19: <https://nl-rse.org/2019/07/09/NL-RSE-2019.html>.
