Hijacked journals (also known as cloned journals) are a type of
cybercrime. They copy the title, ISSN, and other metadata of legitimate
journals and claim to be the authentic journal in order to attract
authors and publish their papers in exchange for article processing
charges (Abalkina, 2021; Jalalian & Dadkhah, 2015; Moussa, 2021). This
phenomenon was first documented around 2011 (Jalalian & Dadkhah, 2015).
Since then, hundreds of journals have been hijacked.

There are two methods of journal hijacking. First, fraudulent publishers
create an alternative website for an existing journal, claiming that it
is the genuine one (see Figure 1). This type of hijacking can be
successful because they target print-only journals, and the fake website
becomes the only visible online presence of the journal. They also clone
journals published in local languages. This strategy has been especially
effective with Chinese journals.

**Figure 1: *Chinese Journal of Evidence-Based Medicine*: authentic and cloned
websites**

![Fig. 1a: Authentic journal (Source: <https://www.cjebm.net/>)](img/fig1a.png)

![Fig. 1b: Hijacked journal (Source: <https://web.archive.org/web/20190331173644/https://www.russianlawjournal.org/jour>)](img/fig1b.png)


Another method is to register the expired web domain of an existing
journal (Bohannon, 2015). This can happen when a journal ceases
publication or when the original publisher fails to renew the domain
registration. For example, the *Russian Law Journal* ceased publication,
a fraudulent publisher registered its expired domain and created a
journal website of the *Russian Law Journal* and accepted hundreds of
papers in different disciplines, which were subsequently indexed in Web
of Science (Abalkina, 2023b) (see Figure 2).

**Figure 2: *Russian Law Journal*: authentic and hijacked websites**

![Fig. 2a: Authentic journal (2019) (Source:
<https://web.archive.org/web/20190331173644/https://www.russianlawjournal.org/jour>)](img/fig2a.png)

![Fig. 2b: Hijacked journal (2025) (Source: <https://www.russianlawjournal.org/index.php/journal>)
](img/fig2b.png)

More than 400 cases of hijacked journals have been documented since 2012
across different lists. The first list was created by the US-American
librarian Jeffrey Beall, but he stopped updating it in 2017. Cabell's, a
paywalled database of journals, also includes hijacked journals as part
of its criteria in *Predatory Reports*, which evaluates journals based
on deceptive, fraudulent, or predatory practices. Another list has been
compiled by UGC CARE in India[^1], which includes Cloned List I for
local hijacked journals and Cloned List II for those indexed in
international databases. However, UGC CARE is discontinuing its journal
list used for research evaluation purposes (The Economic Times, 2025).
It is unclear whether the lists of cloned journals will continue to be
updated. Another list is the Retraction Watch Hijacked Journal
Checker[^2], created in May 2022 and regularly updated. As of May 2025,
the list includes more than 350 entries of hijacked journals.

The majority of original journals have been hijacked once, though some
are associated with two cloned websites. The case of the Seybold Journal
is notable, with five cloned websites (Abalkina, 2023a). Such multiple
cloning of journals by different fraudulent publishers can be explained
by the fact that certain types of legitimate journals are particularly
targeted, for example, trade journals, small, niche and print-only
journals, or journals published in local languages (Jalalian &
Mahboobi, 2014; Shahri et al., 2018). Hijackers normally don't clone
journals by major publishers, though individual cases have been
reported. For instance, in 2024 a fraudulent publisher cloned 13
journals published by Elsevier, Springer, etc. (Abalkina, 2024a). A
striking detail is that the cloned webpages were identical to the
authentic journals, the only difference was the web domain address,
which was slightly different from the original.

Hijacked journals are not as numerous as predatory journals, but their
proliferation also poses a significant challenge to the scientific
community. They threaten scientific integrity by offering rapid
publication without peer review, distorting international database
indexes, and serving as repositories for low-quality papers and research
involving misconduct. Such papers are nonetheless cited in reputable
journals and indexed in various bibliographic databases.

There is evidence that unreviewed papers published in hijacked journals
can be indexed in Scopus or Web of Science. A study by Abalkina (2024b)
identified 67 hijacked journals that have penetrated Scopus since 2013,
of which 33 have indexed unauthorized content, 23 compromised the
journal's homepage link in Scopus, and 11 did both. There is also
evidence of hijacked journals penetrating Web of Science (Abalkina,
2023b; Butler, 2013). Hijacked journals are indexed in Google Scholar as
well, and scholars should be cautious when retrieving data or conducting
literature searches through this platform.

### Features of hijacked journals

Hijacked journals present themselves as multidisciplinary journals. The
topics of the papers they accept are usually from various disciplines
and often do not correspond to the title of the journal. This happens
because hijacked journals aim to accept as many papers as possible to
maximize their profit. Low article processing charges (APCs) are another
potential "red flag" of a fraudulent journal. Bhasker and Solomon (2025)
note that low APCs of \$25 per article are a specific diagnostic
indicator of pseudo-journals. Such low fees can be explained by the
limited payment capacity in countries where most authors publishing in
hijacked journals are based, for example India, Indonesia, Uzbekistan,
etc.

Hijacked journals publish papers within a matter of days, which is
problematic because a genuine publication process requires both
editorial assessment of the manuscript and a peer review process, both
of which take time.

Hijacked journals may assign fake DOIs starting with numbers such as 12,
16 or 20 (see Figure 3), although a legitimate DOI always begins with
10. Sometimes, fraudulent publishers register real DOIs for hijacked
journals. In such cases, it is possible to identify that the publisher
is not the original one by cross-checking the information in the ISSN
Portal or Crossref.

**Figure 3: A cloned version of gis.Science: Die Zeitschrift für Geoinformatik**

![Hijacked journal (Source: <https://gisscience.net/volume-12-issue-5-2025/>)](img/fig3.png)

Some hijacked journals provide fake editorial boards or copy them from
other journals. They may also present fabricated journal metrics and
incorrect impact factor values (Dadkhah et al., 2016) and claim
indexation in different bibliographic databases, such as Scopus or Web
of Science.

One of the red flags of hijacked journals is an anonymously registered
and recently created domain, which can be verified using a WHOIS
service. A recent registration makes it difficult for a hijacked journal
to demonstrate a history of regular publication or the availability of
an archive, which potential authors expect to see in a legitimate
journal. For this reason, hijacked journals may create a fake archive
filled with articles copied from other hijacked journals or generated by
AI (Abalkina, 2021). Often the texts of these archived papers are not
accessible due to paywall, likely because they do not exist. However, an
archive is an important feature of a journal, as it indicates the
continuous publication of journal issues (Dony et al., 2020).

### What Can Be Done? Recommendations for Journals

Authentic journals that are hijacked face several challenges. They
experience an increased editorial workload due to letters from authors
who have fallen victim to the hijacked versions. Editors must take
additional measures to prevent further damage to the journal, neutralize
the hijacked version, and take steps to restore accurate information in
bibliographic databases if the hijacked journal has led to the indexing
of unauthorized content. Müller & Sæbø (2023) discuss such challenges in
the case of the hijacking of their journal, *Scandinavian Journal of
Information Systems*.

These challenges highlight the need for a proactive response from
journals and editors in case of hijacking. The following measures can
help journals to prevent hijacking, protect the journal and potential
authors, as well as mitigate the negative effects caused by hijacking:

- Ensure the security of the journal\'s website and renew the domain
  registration in a timely manner. Passwords and access credentials
  should be stored securely. It is also important to plan for situations
  in which a colleague who holds the access credentials leaves the job
  and there should always be an alternative means of access to data
  storage. There have been cases where journals lost their web domains
  because they were unable to regain access.
- Journals should improve their search engine optimization (SEO), as
  hijacked journals actively promote fraudulent websites that often
  appear among the top search results in different search engines.

In case of hijacking:

- Submit a complaint to the domain registrar and hosting provider.
  Provide all available evidence of the illegitimate use of the
  journal's title, ISSN, and other metadata. Include the details of the
  hijacked journal and any known contact information.
- You may consider contacting Visa, MasterCard, PayPal, etc., to disrupt
  the payment process of the hijacked journal if it is receiving
  payments for publications.
- Publish information about the journal hijacking on the homepage of the
  legitimate journal\'s website to inform authors about the fraudulent
  site. If the website is in a language other than English, consider
  adding the message in English as well, since the main victims of
  journal hijacking are often authors from East, South, and Central
  Asia.
- Inform the Retraction Watch Hijacked Journal Checker about the
  hijacking case by filling out the form[^3]. Please also indicate the
  original website. If the case is confirmed, the database will be
  updated accordingly.
- If the journal has lost its web domain, inform indexing databases (e. g., Scopus, Web of Science, Scimago, DOAJ) about the case. Fraudulent
  publishers may use the domain to host a fake journal and index
  unreviewed papers in various bibliographic databases.
- Fraudulent publishers may also register a new DOI prefix for the
  hijacked journal. This can be checked via the Crossref title list[^4].
  If this has occurred, provide all available evidence of hijacking to
  Crossref. This may lead to the exclusion of the member from Crossref
  like in the case of a suspicious "Springer Global Publications" which
  had cloned the website of journals published by Springer, Elsevier,
  and other major publishers (Kincaid, 2024).

### Conclusions

Hijacked journals are a type of fraudulent journal that poses a
significant challenge to academic publishing by exploiting the
reputation of legitimate journals. The proliferation of hijacked
journals highlights vulnerabilities in the scholarly communication
infrastructure, insufficient verification processes in indexing
databases, limited awareness of the problem, and the use of publications
in hijacked journals for research evaluation.

Tackling the problem of hijacked journals requires a coordinated and
proactive response from multiple stakeholders. This includes stronger
verification and response mechanisms from indexing databases, increased
awareness of the issue, educating scholars on how to recognize hijacked
journals to avoid submitting papers to or citing from them, and
preventive actions by legitimate journals to protect themselves from
being hijacked.

### Conflict of interest

Anna Abalkina is a co-founder of the Retraction Watch Hijacked Journal
Checker.

### References

Abalkina, A. (2021). Detecting a network of hijacked journals by its
archive. Scientometrics, 126, 7123--7148.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s11192-021-04056-0>.

Abalkina, A. (2023a). How many times can a journal be hijacked?
Retraction Watch, 24 February 2023.
<https://retractionwatch.com/2023/02/24/how-many-times-can-a-journal-be-hijacked/>.

Abalkina, A. (2023b). Three journals' web domains expired. Then major
indexes pointed to hijacked versions. Retraction Watch, 26 May 2023.
<https://retractionwatch.com/2023/05/26/three-journals-web-domains-expired-then-major-indexes-pointed-to-hijacked-versions/>.

Abalkina, A. (2024a). New hijacking scam targets Elsevier, Springer
Nature, and other major publishers. Retraction Watch, 25 November 2024.
<https://retractionwatch.com/2024/11/25/exclusive-new-hijacking-scam-targets-elsevier-springer-nature-and-other-major-publishers/>.

Abalkina, A. (2024b). Challenges posed by hijacked journals in Scopus.
Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology,
75(4), 395--422. <https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.24855>.

Bhasker, J., & Vijay Solomon, R. (2025). The cost of deception:
pseudo-journals and exploitative article processing charges. Research
Evaluation, 34, rvaf017. <https://doi.org/10.1093/reseval/rvaf017>.

Bohannon, J. (2015). How to hijack a journal. Science, 350(6263),
903--905. <https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aad7463>.

Butler, D. (2013). Sham journals scam authors. Nature, 495, 421--422.
<https://doi.org/10.1038/495421a>.

Dadkhah, M., Maliszewski, T., & Teixeira da Silva, J. A. (2016).
Hijacked journals, hijacked web-sites, journal phishing, misleading
metrics, and predatory publishing: Actual and potential threats to
academic integrity and publishing ethics. Forensic Science, Medicine,
and Pathology, 12, 353--362.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s12024-016-9785-x>.

Dony, C., Raskinet, M., Renaville, F., Simon, S., Thirion, P. (2020).
How reliable and useful is Cabell's blacklist? A Data-Driven Analysis.
LIBER Quarterly, 30, 1--38. <https://doi.org/10.18352/lq.10339>.

Jalalian, M., & Dadkhah, M. (2015). The full story of 90 hijacked
journals from August 2011 to June 2015. Geographica Pannonica, 19(2),
73--87. <https://doi.org/10.18421/GP19.02-06>.

Jalalian, M., & Mahboobi, J. (2014). Hijacked journals and predatory
publishers Is there a need to re-think how to assess the quality of
academic research. Walailak Journal of Science and Technology, 11(5),
389--394. <https://doi.org/10.14456/WJST.2014.16>.

Kincaid, E. (2024). Crossref suspends company's membership after
Retraction Watch report. Retraction Watch. 2 December 2024.
<https://retractionwatch.com/2024/12/02/crossref-suspends-companys-membership-after-retraction-watch-report/>.

Moussa, S. (2021b). Journal hijacking: Challenges and potential
solutions. Learned Publishing, 34(4), 688--695.
<https://doi.org/10.1002/leap.1412>.

Müller, S. D., & Sæbø, J. I. (2023). The "hijacking" of the Scandinavian
Journal of Information Systems: Implications for the information systems
community. Information Systems Journal, 2023, 1--20.
<https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12481>.

Shahri, et al. (2018). Detecting Hijacked journals by using
classification algorithms. Science and Engineering Ethics, 24, 655--668.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s11948-017-9914-2>.

The Economic Times. (2025). UGC discontinues CARE List journals,
switches to decentralised journal evaluation. The Economic Times, 11
February 2025.
<https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/services/education/ugc-discontinues-care-list-journals-switches-to-decentralised-journal-evaluation/articleshow/118150336.cms?from=mdr>.

[^1]: The Indian University Grants Commission (UGC) first introduced the
    UGC Consortium for Academic and Research Ethics (UGC-CARE) list in
    2018, listing quality academic journals.

[^2]: Retraction Watch Hijacked Journal Checker:
    <https://retractionwatch.com/the-retraction-watch-hijacked-journal-checker/>

[^3]: Retraction Watch Hijacked Journal Checker form:
    <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScOZ6qj8ZwpkGh8IH7Z43xnxgY8B9wPHUKXnK50ikVv3HC-Dg/viewform>

[^4]: Crossref title list: <https://www.crossref.org/titleList/>
