*Open Repositories* (*OR*) is an international conference dating back to
the Noughties. *OR 2019* put *users* with their perspectives and their
possible impacts on infrastructures at the forefront.[^1] The conference
ran under the motto "All the user needs". It focused on the reception of
and familiarity with open repositories by people or even machines.[^2]
Accordingly, users and their needs and behaviour were the topics running
through the presentations. As stated, *OR* as a conference format dates
back more than a decade. This not only indicates a long tradition, but
also the stability and solidity of the topic itself: Open repositories
have obviously become an integral part of scholarship, as well as of
library and information systems.

The conference lasted for four days. It was divided into a workshop day
and three panel days, the latter consisting each of two panel sections,
separated into five tracks running parallel. Taking the broad spectrum
and the overlapping structure into consideration, this report does not
aim to describe the conference and its results in an exhaustive way.[^3]
Rather it presents a series of snapshots focusing on the sustainability
of structures, which was one of the themes addressed at the conference.
Soft factors like user-centric approaches, as well as constant external
and internal communication are keys to sustainable (infra-)structures
for open repositories.

The conference started with a workshop day, followed by an opening
keynote (Gothelf), several panels, poster and ideas challenge
presentations and a closing keynote (Piwowar). In accordance to the
description on the conference's website,[^4] repository *practice* stood
centre-stage. Not surprisingly, numerous projects (in different stages)
facilitating several approaches were presented and discussed throughout
the four conference days -- from a very deep and detailed user-centered
design (Galligan \[Rockefeller Archive Center, USA\]), to remarks on
institutional issues one should be aware of when it comes to forming
sustainable organisational patterns (Notay, Moore & Duke \[Jisc, UK\]).
The presentations were not only wide-ranging in terms of the
"locations", and the methods shown, but also concerning the relevant
topics such as presenting scientific audio material in a repository
(Plank, Drees & Ogunyemi \[Leibniz Information Centre for Science and
Technology, Germany\]), providing scientific images (Sohmen, Blümel &
Heller \[Leibniz Information Centre for Science and Technology,
Germany\]), and preserving (all around) country music (Boulie \[Country
Music Hall of Fame and Museum, USA). In short, open repositories were
not only discussed in relation to text items, nor was the focus solely
on the academic sector, but also considered cultural heritage.

Many of the talks reflected the user-centric approach by sharing the
results of research into user needs. Methods applied were: building
focus groups, doing expert interviews, surveys, testing, and shaping
personas (e.g. Géroudet \[Université de Lille, France\]; Plank, Drees &
Ogunyemi). Applying a mixture of these methods to create helpful
products seems to be at the core of repositories' efforts on behalf of
users. Further, Davey, Fripp & Kaye underlined the importance of
navigating and supporting users through the "journey"[^5] they go on,
for example when depositing something, as well as general design
principles such as the appropriate harmonisation of colours.

Also of interest were approaches that focused on the sustainability of
structures, such as the management of persistent identifiers (PIDs)
being a key element of repositories. Notay, Moore & Duke's talk (the
presentation was held by Balviar Notay and Monica Duke) about building
an ORCID consortium in the UK included a "business plan for
sustainability".[^6] Sustainability was drilled down to 1) "developing
infrastructure", 2) "maintaining integration", 3) "engaging the
community", 4) "developing the business model", 5) "communications
planning", 6) "gathering and synthesising the requirements" and 7)
"international engagement".[^7] Notay, Moore & Duke linked (added)
value, and communication with sustainability. Consequently, they
underlined, that the question of costs is not the only matter to
consider when planning wider institutional structures, such as a
consortium.[^8] Therefore, they worked with the metaphorical phrase
"Sustainability requires spinning plates".[^9] In addition, they raised
the issue of PID interoperability being important for sustainability.
The challenge is to find a balance between the diversification and the
association of structures.

Adaptability to the ever-changing user behaviour was also addressed in
this context. Lee Boulie presented a project on Music Row, a part of
Nashville in the US that, with many music studios located there, has
played a decisive role in music history. Recent efforts from the Country
Music Hall of Fame and Museum were summed up with the phrase "Meet Them
Where They Are".[^10] According to Boulie, access points in cultural
heritage institutions tend to be apps and video games, while "classical
anchors", like institutional homepages, are losing significance. As the
conference's motto already reflects, and as Boulie's talk proved, users
are at the core of open repositories. This statement seems to be true
for users in terms of readers and authors as well as library services:
As Zhang et al. \[Oregon State University Libraries and Press\] showed,
it is a challenge to foster openness by increasing green open access
deposit rates, without also adding to the workload of library staff who
must process and accompany these deposits. Oregon State developed and
implemented an automated system (based on Web of Science), which is
called Easy Deposit 2 (ED2). This system sends out emails inviting
deposit, containing a short text with links to click on. The process of
depositing is reduced to uploading a file, and then confirming the
publication on ScholarsArchive\@OSU. Authors do not need an account in
order to contribute to the repository. Zhang et al. however, emphasised
that fostering openness in a manifest and sustainable way depends on
research culture and the users' attitudes. One of the points also named,
was the importance of statistics about items in the repositories.[^11]
Contributors are highly interested in download and view rates, a factor
that seems to reflect the like/dislike and rating-behaviour to be
observed in everyday life.

Furthermore, a wide range of repositories was presented, e.g. scientific
videos in an open repository hosted by TIB Hannover (Plank et al.)[^12],
Vanhaverbeke and colleagues \[KU Leuven, Belgium\] presented University
of Leuven's new repository LIRIAS 2.0[^13] to show that the extension of
formats and item types, such as "datasets, software & code",[^14] is an
important factor.[^15] Vanhaverbeke et al. also stated in their talk
that "communication was really crucial".[^16] Constant communication
does not only include asking and finding out what users need, but also
monitoring their behaviour. A workshop on algorithmic awareness, held on
the first conference day (Clark & Kaptanian \[Montana State University,
USA\]), fitted well into this topic : The workshop raised the question
of how to accompany and support users in a digital world, and it
sensitised those on the providers' side, including librarians and
developers, to the power of infrastructural decisions. Openness demands
transparency and this involves algorithmic awareness being a part of
information literacy.[^17]

The conference was framed by two keynotes, the first held by Jeff
Gothelf, a freelance coach and consultant,[^18] the second by Heather
Piwowar, co-founder of "our research", formerly ImpactStory, the
organisation behind Unpaywall.[^19] Jeff Gothelf had a look at design
principles, managerial decisions (keywords: design thinking and agile
methods), and workflow models. Heather Piwowar talked about the growth
and significance of the open repositories' community in general. Jeff
Gothelf underlined, that "we live in a world where the dominant tech
companies create the tools that we use every day \[\...\] and those
expectations come home to the systems that we build".[^20] Piwowar's
talks turned out to be a passionate speech for openness concerning
software, but also in terms of the users and their needs. She said the
memorable sentences "think of your users most broadly",[^21] and "think
about all the users you haven't met yet".[^22] Furthermore, she
mentioned openness of the community by passing the knowledge gained over
time.[^23] In this way, Heather Piwowar's talk might be linked to the
keynote held by Jeff Gothelf -- and to his works on UX in general: By
defining UX as "the sum total of all the interactions a user has with
\[a\] product and service" (Gothelf/Seiden 2016: 47), openness seems to
be on top of this process, as users and their needs are, like the world
itself, flowing. To find out what user experience is, it is necessary to
keep in touch with users and to constantly communicate with them.
Openness is appropriate to foster sustainable structures in libraries.

To sum it up: With its focus on "All the user needs", 2019's *Open
Repositories* covered a topic that affects all aspects of open
repositories. One cannot divide the user's needs from the provider's,
and the institutional perspective remains connected to the products and
services. Having a closer look at the question of sustainability,
lessons learnt from *OR2019* appear to be: sustainability can only be
guaranteed by centering all efforts on the users and their needs. This
in turn requires constant communication with users, as well as within
teams and across institutions and communities, and all those providing
products and services. *OR2019*, with its long tradition of
international exchange and openness itself is a good example of such
efforts.[^24]

References:

Gothelf, Jeff/Seiden, Josh (2016): Lean UX. Designing Great Products
with Agile Teams. 2^nd^ Edition. O'Reilly.

Acknowledgements:

The author would like to thank LIBREAS e.V. for generously supporting
the congress' attendance, as well as for beneficially commenting on this
report. He would further like to thank Benjamin Auberer for helpful
remarks and notes on the text at hand; many thanks also to Universitäts-
und Landesbibliothek Sachsen-Anhalt, Halle (Saale) for supporting me.

[^1]: In their talk on "Jisc Open Research Repository: Delivering a
    compelling User Experience", Davey, Fripp & Kaye \[Jisc, UK\]
    expressed the following: "The repository isn't the need \[\...\] the
    need is the thing the repository does. The repository is kind of the
    symptom of a whole set of needs that lie outside of the repository."
    (Davey, Fripp & Kaye, 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24954>,
    approx. 9:55-10:05, last retrieved 6 August 2019). See also Jeff
    Gothelf in his keynote "Outcomes over output: A user-centric
    approach to building successful systems": "Just because you can
    build it, doesn't mean you should build it." (Gothelf, 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24934>,
    approx. 44:06, last retrieved 6 August 2019) ; this is by the way,
    the aspect that his differentiation (cf. Gothelf/Seiden 2016: 34 and
    21: "Our goal is not to create a deliverable or a feature: it's to
    positively affect customer behavior or change in the world---to
    create an outcome.") between output (just build something) and
    outcome (build something causing a real, measurable change) boils
    down to.

[^2]: Cf. http://archiv.gwin.gwiss.uni-hamburg.de/or2019/cfp/, last
    retrieved 12 December 2019. Hicks, Phillipps & Andrews \[University
    of North Texas Libraries, USA\] (the talk was held by William
    Hicks), 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24757>,
    last retrieved 8 August 2019 covered this aspect by showing which
    "Links for Robots" (17:35, on the slide blended in) they provided in
    their repository; Hicks, Phillipps & Andrews referred to
    "IIIF-manifestations of the objects" (17:45), for example.

[^3]: By now, most of the content of Open Repositories 2019 is available
    online, cf.
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/l/5134>,
    last retrieved 5 August 2019. It can also be found in a Zenodo
    community (not yet available/under construction, cf. for current
    information: <http://archiv.gwin.gwiss.uni-hamburg.de/or2019/>, last
    retrieved 12 December2019); long-term archiving should therefore be
    ensured. The recorded material is referred to in the text at hand,
    by naming the authors, and, if applicable, citing the corresponding
    part of the video in minutes and seconds. Affiliations of the
    contributors, referred to in this text, are noted down in square
    brackets; specifications follow the data available on *OR2019*'s
    conference agenda (cf.
    <https://www.conftool.net/or2019/sessions.php>,
    last retrieved 10 September 2019), written down here in the report
    solely at first mention.

[^4]: "The annual Open Repositories Conference is a practitioner based
    conference that brings together people from higher education,
    government, libraries, archives and museums to focus on repository
    infrastructure, tools, services, and policies."
    <http://archiv.gwin.gwiss.uni-hamburg.de/or2019/23/>, last retrieved
    12 December 2019.

[^5]: Davey, Fripp & Kaye, 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24954>,
    approx. 05:21, last retrieved 7 August 2019. Another aspect
    mentioned was accessibility. Not only Davey, Fripp & Kaye referred
    to this topic, but also Hicks, Phillipps & Andrews, 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24757>,
    last retrieved 7 August 2019, presenting the processes undergone in
    terms of a redesign of the University of North Texas Libraries'
    repository, cf. especially 07:20-07:40.

[^6]: Notay, Moore & Duke, 12 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24860>,
    last retrieved, 2 August 2019, approx. 07:23.

[^7]: Ibid., approx. 26:55-27:29.

[^8]: Cf. ibid., approx. 23:48-23:58. In this context, it could be
    added, that within the panel "All Together Now? The role of service
    providers in open source communities" (cf.
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24920>,
    last retrieved, 6 August 2019, the question of the need of
    commercial stakeholders in the field of open repositories was
    raised: Mark Bussey from Digital Curation Experts (DCE) mentioned in
    his contribution to that issue: 1) Commercial providers do work
    together with a range of clients, so they are aware of the variety
    of challenges. 2) Commercial providers facilitate sustainability in
    a community whose institutions are in constant transition, he talked
    about "gaps" (07:33) that naturally come into being, for example
    concerning focusses and training. 3) Commercial providers decrease
    obstacles small institutions may face when trying to participate in
    the open repository world (cf. for all approx. 06:40-07:50). Richard
    Jones from Cottage Labs added that except from that, the division
    between commercial and non-commercial providers within the open
    repository world seems to be "artificial" because finally, it is
    about this: "serve ourselves by serving others" (approx. 10:36).

[^9]: Notay, Moore & Duke, 12 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24860>,
    last retrieved, 9 August 2019, approx. 27:13, slide blended in.

[^10]: <https://www.conftool.net/or2019/index.php?page=browseSessions&form\_session=353>
    =
    <https://www.conftool.net/or2019/index.php/24x7-P3C-108Boulie_b.pptx?page=downloadPaper&filename=24x7-P3C-108Boulie_b.pptx&form_id=108&form_index=2&form_version=final>,
    last retrieved 7 August 2019, slides 8 & 9.

[^11]: Cf. Zhang et al., 12 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24853>,
    last retrieved 7 August 2019.

[^12]: Cf. Plan, Drees & Ogunyemi, 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24777>,
    last retrieved 6 August 2019.

[^13]: The talk was held by Valérie Adriaens.

[^14]: <https://www.conftool.net/or2019/index.php?page=browseSessions&form\_session=377&presentations=show>
    =
    <https://www.conftool.net/or2019/index.php/24x7-P7C-497Adriaens_a.pdf?page=downloadPaper&filename=24x7-P7C-497Adriaens_a.pdf&form_id=497&form_version=final>,
    last retrieved 14 November 2019, slide/page 10.

[^15]: Cf. Vanhaverbeke et al., 13 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24900>,
    last retrieved 7 August 2019.

[^16]: Ibid, approx. 07:15-07:17.

[^17]: Cf. for material:
    <https://github.com/jasonclark/algorithmic-awareness>,
    last retrieved 9 August 2019.

[^18]: Cf. <https://jeffgothelf.com/>, last retrieved 3 November 2019.

[^19]: Cf. <https://ourresearch.org/team>, last retrieved 3 November
    2019.

[^20]: Gothelf, 11 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24934>,
    approx. 03:37-03:56, last retrieved 6 August 2019.

[^21]: Piwowar, 13 June 2019,
    <https://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/l2go/-/get/v/24979>,
    approx. 38:25, last retrieved 6 September 2019.

[^22]: Ibid., approx. 38:39-38:42.

[^23]: Cf. ibid., approx. 24:00-25:30.

[^24]: *OR2020* will take place in Stellenbosch, South Africa, cf.
    <https://or2020.sun.ac.za>,
    last retrieved 4 September 19.
