### Introduction

The objectives of modern higher education are mostly considered as a
process of teaching scholarly thinking and developing a new level of
knowledge for students and postgraduate students. This process is
structured in curricular programs, academic research and educational
work. Additionally, corporate values, joint projects of various
departments, international programs and cooperation are applied to shape
the image of a world-class university, i.e., an academic environment,
which can be created only via face-to-face communication between
scientists and their students, who are developing scholarly traditions
together.

A highly topical issue of international scientific library conferences
over the last decade is a theme of overall "scientometrics" and the
respective features of library staff\'s new competencies involved with
scientific and scholarly journal publishing in Universities.

This article provides an overview of the library\'s contribution to
development of editorial and publishing workflows for thirteen new
university academic journals. All journals were founded in 2018. The
objectives of the article are to explain and frame the mission, tasks,
the editorial board working group, and scientometric indicators of those
new scientific periodicals of the Kyiv National University of Culture
and Arts.

Traditionally, a world-class university was not only a leading
institution of higher education of the city and country but also a
recognized centre for research, well-known scholarly traditions and the
domain of experts capable to develop and apply creative ideas, to
disseminate scholarly knowledge, to share experience, and to communicate
their insights to the scholarly world.

Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts is a relatively young
institution of higher education of Ukraine. However, it seeks to obtain
the status of a leader among humanities-focused universities in the
Ukraine.

A substantial tool to achieve this goal is to widely present the
research results, for instance at international conferences or in the
form of published scholarly work in collections and journals that are
indexed in scientific databases.

The modern university should share the information on new scholarly
findings, research results, and a discussion of current developments of
arts and culture. The information environment's transformation changed
the formats of production, distribution and use of information, and
updated the need for innovative technologies implementation, digital
library services, and support services for research provided by the
university library. The work with the scientific periodicals of the
university, their publishing and editorial support has a top priority.
This is emphasized by Suzanne Stapleton's statement: "Academic libraries
provide unique perspectives and opportunities in scholarly publishing as
a result of their mission to support the research and education agendas
of their scholars."[^1]

### Scientific Journal Publishing Process

#### Stage 1

At first, the field of scholarly journals for arts and culture in
Ukraine was monitored. As a result, the need to create multiple
publishing platforms to present results of unique research on
audiovisual, choreographic, stage, film and television arts, design,
digital communications, etc. was established.

To determine the mission, objectives, readership of potential journals,
a list of researchers as potential authors, editorial boards members and
reviewers was created. We also considered the journals' future role to
make research more visible through the international scientometrics
databases.

When developing the growth and promotion strategy of the publications we
focused at providing the following issues journals require:

-   international editorial board and authors,

-   standardized name in English,

-   the ISSN number for print and online publications,

-   digital object identifier (DOI),

-   high quality content,

-   conclusive English texts and a convincing print design,

-   an established publication frequency,

-   ethical research standards,

-   indexing in bibliographic citation databases, journal lists and international search engines.

Taking the above into account, it was decided that the main functions of
the newly-established journals should give an idea of the following:

-   research trends in Cultural Studies, Art Studies, Social Communications that describe major research findings,

-   the level of research integration into the global scholarly community,

-   the quality of Ukrainian scientific journals of the related subjects, in comparison with the international ones,

-   publication activity of authors of Ukrainian higher educational institutions,

-   academic affiliation of scholarly institutions,

-   the publications' ranking according to international citation databases.

#### Stage 2

At the second stage, in October 2018, the Scientific Library turned into
an active participant of the publishing process and the editorial
support for thirteen scientific publications.

It should be noted that the "functioning of scholarly publishing is
intended to arrange a well-organised connection between the author, the
editorial board, the editors, the publisher, and the reader. The
effectiveness and success of the journal's work -- its rankings depend
on these links\' state of being organised"[^2]. Taking into account the
recommendations of the "Mohylanskii Protocol", which states that "the
owner (founder) of the journal and the editorial staff are responsible
for the journal as a reliable source of high-quality scientific
information on a specific subject"[^3], there are selected chief editors
and members of the editorial boards of scientific journals. The academic
prestige of the scientists, their active profiles in Scopus or Web of
Science and their articles in these citation indices were taken into
consideration.

### Scientific Journals: An Overview

Six out of the thirteen journals under discussion are subject matter
series of the Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and
Arts scientific papers collection.

***1. "Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts.
Series: Audiovisual Art and Production".***

Published by: Faculty of Film and Television. Brief description: general
theoretical, artistic, historical, and practical topics on audiovisual
art and production, the results of artists' work studies, archival
researches, and bibliographic reviews[^4].

The editorial board: 26 members, of these, 4 are scientists from Kuwait,
Spain, Poland, and Belarus. The editor-in-chief: Alexander Bezruchko,
Doctor of Art Studies, Professor.

**2. *"Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts.
Series in Management of Social and Cultural Activity".***

Published by: Faculty of Event Management, Fashion and Show Business.
Brief description: theory, history, culture and art issues of
management, its socio-cultural achievements and future development in
Ukraine and all over the world. This is a scientific platform designed
to exchange the ideas and share opinions on the development trends of
management in the social and cultural field[^5].

The editorial board: 24 members, of these, 5 are representatives of the
Netherlands, Poland, Hungary, the USA, and Portugal. The
editor-in-chief: Yaroslav Martynyshyn, Doctor of Economics, Professor.

***3. "Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts.
Series in Museology and Monumental Studies".***

Published by: Faculty of Information Policy and Cybersecurity. Brief
description: theoretical, historical, applied issues of museum studies
and the monument conservation; collective memory, politics of memory;
innovation in the development of museum studies, promoting them[^6].

The editorial board: 13 scientists, of these, 5 are from Sweden,
Moldova, Poland, Belarus, and Georgia. The editor-in-chief: Serhii
Pustovalov, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor.

***4. "Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts.
Series in Musical Art".***

Published by: Faculty of Musical Arts. Brief description: theory and
history issues of Ukrainian and world musicology, theoretical, creative
and methodological problems of the development of musical arts under
contemporary conditions. It covers the results of studies of artists\'
work, archival research, and bibliographic reviews[^7].

The editorial board: 15 members, of these, 4 represent art scholarly
traditions of Slovenia, Azerbaijan, Australia, and Poland. The
editor-in-chief: Tatiana Humeniuk, Doctor of Philosophy, Professor.

***5. "Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts.
Series in Stage Art".***

Published by: Faculty of Performing Arts. Brief description: theory,
history and practice of world and Ukrainian performing arts[^8]. The
objectives are to promote the creation of open information space for
communication between leading scientists, young scientists, and experts.

The editorial board: 31 scientists. Of these, 9 are scientists from
Kuwait, Georgia, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Latvia, India, and Lithuania. The
editor-in-chief: Martinas Petrikas, Doctor of Art Studies, Associate
Professor (Republic of Lithuania).

***6. "Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts.
Series in Tourism".***

Published by: Faculty of Tourism, Hotel and Restaurant Business. Brief
description: topical issues on the theory and methodology of tourism,
the scientific backgrounds of tourism for sustainable development, the
key features of the information and innovation activities in tourism and
the management of tourism industry agents, the cultural issues of
tourism development in modern conditions[^9].

The editorial board: 15 members. Foreign schools for science are
represented by scientists from Belarus, Slovakia, and the People\'s
Republic of China. Chairman of the editorial board is Volodymyr
Antonenko, Doctor of Geographical Sciences, Professor.

***7. "Demiurge: ideas, technologies, perspectives of design".***

Published by: Faculty of Design and Advertising. Brief description:
design development, a platform created for searching models and ways to
solve them. The objectives are to cover the problems of theory, history,
practice and the prospects for the development of design and visual
practices in Ukraine and the world[^10].

The editorial board: 13 members, two of them represent art schools of
Poland and Italy. The editor-in-chief: Liliana Vezhbovska, PhD in Art
Studies, Associate Professor.

***8. "International Relations: Theory and Practical Aspects".***

Published by: Faculty of International Relations. Brief description:
international relations, public communication and regional studies
related to historical and theoretical questions of international
relations; foreign policy and diplomacy; international law; world
economy and international economic relations; public relations and
language support of international activity; social research in the field
of international relations[^11].

The editorial board: 17 members, of these, 4 represent foreign academic
schools of Poland and the Czech Republic. The editor-in-chief: Valerii
Lastovsky, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor.

***9. "Restaurant and Hotel Consulting. Innovations".***

Published by: Faculty of Tourism, Hotel and Restaurant Business. Brief
description: development of hotel and restaurant business, as follows:
innovative development of hotel and restaurant places; current issues of
culinology, enogastronomy, anthropology of food and serviceology; theory
and practical aspects of the food technologies of functional purpose
adoption; the issues regarding the food ecology and hotel and catering
services; economy, marketing, management, competitiveness, modern IT
solutions within the hotel and restaurant business. The publication aims
to advance scientific studies in hotel and restaurant business[^12].

The editorial board: 22 scientists, 6 of them represent institutions of
science in Poland, Sweden, Azerbaijan, Turkey, USA, and Bulgaria. The
editor-in-chief: Hryhorii Deynichenko, Doctor of Technical Sciences,
Professor.

***10. "Dance Studies".***

Published by: Faculty of Choreographic Arts. Brief description: theory,
history and practice of Ukrainian and international choreographic
culture; interdisciplinary issues regarding the choreography[^13].

The editorial board: 14 members, 4 of them represent dance schools of
Spain, Belarus, Slovakia, and the USA. The editor-in-chief: Olexander
Chepalov, Doctor of Art Studies, Professor.

***11. "Ukrainian Journal of Library and Information Sciences".***

Published by: Faculty of Information Policy and Cybersecurity.

Brief description: theory and applied aspects of library science,
bibliography, archive science, document science, information technology,
information, library and archive practices[^14].

The editorial board: 15 members, 5 of them are representatives of
institutions of the science of Belarus, the USA, and Poland. The
editor-in-chief is Tatiana Hranchak, Doctor of Social Communications,
Senior Researcher.

***12. "Ukrainian Information Space".***

Published by: Faculty of International Relations and Journalism. Brief
description: the analysis of development and activity practice of the
Ukrainian information space in social and political realities of Ukraine
and within the world context; theory, practical and historical aspects
of the main components of the Ukrainian information space: press, radio
and TV broadcast, online platforms and printed editions[^15].

The editorial board: 16 scientists, 4 of them are representatives of
institutions of the science of Lithuania, Poland, and the USA. The
editor-in-chief: Mykola Tymoshyk, Doctor of Philology, Professor.

***13. "Digital Platform: Information Technologies in the Sociocultural
Sphere".***

Published by: Faculty of Information Policy and Cybersecurity. Brief
description: theory and applied aspects of information technology,
computer science, graphic visualization, information and communication
technologies in the socio-cultural sphere[^16].

The editorial board: 11 members, including representatives of schools
for the science of Bulgaria, Austria, and Lithuania. The
editor-in-chief: Ata Ovezgheldyev, Doctor of Engineering Science.

The frequency of issues in all journals is twice a year (June,
December). All materials are distributed under a Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License. The authors retain copyright and
publication rights without limitation.

#### Collaboration with editorial boards

Collaborating with the editorial boards of the journals between 2018 and
2019, the library undertook the work of obtaining the publications\'
ISSN (each for print and online) and ISSN ID certificates in the
International Centre (France).

To ease the findability of scholarly publications within a wide range of
scientific databases, there is an assignment procedure of DOI for the
articles. As of 2020, all articles of periodical publications of the
University have a DOI.

Since a key element of a new scientific publication promotion is an
informative and well-designed website, which is a journal\'s landmark in
e-science space, the IT department of the Scientific Library created and
managed the website for each edition using Open Journal Systems (OJS).
This includes metadata publishing of journal articles, homepage
preparation of the journal issues, integrity ensuring of the database
and the landing pages of the scientific journals and regular backup
copies.

There is a support service to provide the scientific editorial staff and
authors with full tutorial instructions on how to use OJS. It
coordinates efforts and unifies the editorial policy of all thirteen
journals.

The websites of the journals currently use an Open Journal Systems
2.4.4.1 open-source software package, which serves the processes of
management and publication. The package is developed, maintained, and
distributed for free by the Public Knowledge Project under the GNU
General Public License.[^17]

#### Stage 3. Indexing in international databases

In 2018, we began to integrate the new university journals into
international databases and reference lists. This process lasted in 2019
as well. Now, all scientific journals and collections of scientific
papers are indexed in Crossref cross-publisher reference, in search
engines and the databases of BASE, Google Academy, Central and East
European Index, WorldCat and in the "Scientific Periodicals of Ukraine"
information resource by the Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine.

All journals are indexed in the international databases of Academic
Resource Index (ResearchBib), Index Copernicus Journals Master
List[^18], Polska Bibliografia Naukowa (but "International Relations:
Theory and Practical Aspects").

The journal "Ukrainian Information Space" is additionally presented on
the research portal ResearchGate.

The scientific journals' websites are placed on the platform of the
Ukrainian research and academic network URAN, Directory of Open Access
Journals (DOAJ), one of the most famous search services in the world
that provides information to open access materials and indexes both
journal and scientific article titles; as well as on Ulrichsweb
(Ulrich's Periodicals Directory), an authoritative international
database of periodicals.

#### Future stages

In the future, to promote the University's scholarly publications in
prestigious databases, lists and search engines, the library will
provide training and workshop sessions for authors of articles. The
program includes lessons on how to write abstracts, on shifting to
e-publishing system-based networking between the author and journal
team; to train authors basic principles of using digital article
preparation tools offered by Scopus and Web of Science and therefore
also to use Mendeley and EndNote.

An important task will be the development of the system into open access
defined by the Budapest Open Access Initiative (BOAI, Budapest Open
Access Initiative) via:

-   participation of the University's scientists in international projects of scientific communication,

-   registration of the university\'s repository in international search engines,

-   listing of all scientific journals of the University in open access directories,

-   articles' compliance with the requirements of scientometrics databases (peer-reviewed, English language, with structured abstract, references and relevant metadata).

### Conclusions

Thus, the Scientific Library of the Kyiv National University of Culture
and Arts is completing a complex process of redesigning its role and
tasks within the system of scientific communication of the University.

The article has presented the library's contribution to the editorial
and publishing process, as well as to the promotion of thirteen new
scientific journals of the University. It has provided a description of
the mission, objectives of scientific publications, editorial staff,
stages and promotion results within the international databases and
lists.

Looking ahead, the Scientific Library's activity will be focused on the
development of information-analytical monitoring and bibliometric
analysis of communication systems of the University; a design for the
representation of scientists' profiles in the search engines and the
international scientometrics databases; facilitating the indexing of
scientific journals of the University in Scopus and Web of Science as
international databases.

Priorities include the support of e-publishing and the development of
individual awareness of lecturers for scholarly research based on
international scholarly resources.

Providing the scientific and educational work with information support,
the library transforms its role and objectives, reinventing itself from
the auxiliary research element to an active participant of scientific
and educational work. It boosts the scientific ranking of institutions
of higher education and researchers' brand names as well.

[^1]: Suzanne Cady Stapleton, "A Team Approach: Library Publishing
    Partnerships with Scholarly Societies", *Journal of Librarianship
    and Scholarly Communication*, 7(1), (2019)
     <http://doi.org/10.7710/2162-3309.2326>.

[^2]: Yulia Didenko and Anna Radchenko, "Publishing activity as a way
    of scientific communication and pursuit of ratings", *Bulletin of
    the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine*, 9, (2017): pp. 82--98.
    [https://doi.org/10.15407/visn2017.09.082](https://doi.org/10.15407/visn2017.09.082)

[^3]: Sergei Nazarovets and Tatyana Yaroshenko, "The Mohylanskii
    Protocol: Recommendations for Improving the Editorial Policies of
    Ukrainian Scientific Publications", *Science of Ukraine in the
    world information space*, 11, (2015): pp. 56--59.

[^4]: *Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts*,
    Series: Audiovisual Art and Production,
    [http://audiovisual-art.knukim.edu.ua/](http://audiovisual-art.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^5]: *Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts*,
    Series in Management of Social and Cultural Activity,
    [http://sociocultural.knukim.edu.ua/](http://sociocultural.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^6]: *Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts*,
    Series in Museology and Monumental Studies,
    [http://museum-monument.knukim.edu.ua/](http://museum-monument.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^7]: *Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts*,
    Series in Musical Art,
    [http://musical-art.knukim.edu.ua/](http://musical-art.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^8]: *Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts*,
    Series in Stage Art,
    [http://artonscene.knukim.edu.ua/](http://artonscene.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^9]: *Bulletin of the Kyiv National University of Culture and Arts*,
    Series: Tourism,
    [http://tourism.knukim.edu.ua/](http://tourism.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^10]: *Demiurge*,
    [http://demiurge.knukim.edu.ua/](http://demiurge.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^11]: *International Relations*: Theory and Practical Aspects,
    [http://international-relations.knukim.edu.ua/](http://international-relations.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^12]: *Restaurant and Hotel Consulting. Innovations*,
    [http://restaurant-hotel.knukim.edu.ua/](http://restaurant-hotel.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^13]: *Dance Studies,*
    [http://dancestudios.knukim.edu.ua/](http://dancestudios.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^14]: *Ukrainian Journal of Library and Information Sciences*,
    [http://librinfosciences.knukim.edu.ua/](http://librinfosciences.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^15]: *Ukrainian Information Space,*
    [http://ukrinfospace.knukim.edu.ua/](http://ukrinfospace.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^16]: *Digital platform*: information technologies in sociocultural
    sphere,
    [http://infotech-soccult.knukim.edu.ua/](http://infotech-soccult.knukim.edu.ua/)

[^17]: <https://pkp.sfu.ca/ojs/>

[^18]: <https://indexcopernicus.com/index.php/en/parametryzacja-menu-2/journals-master-list-2>
